Biologics Production Facility is a multifunctional
laboratory.
It is a production facility, which means our
main purpose is to manufacture cellular therapy
products that will be given to patients.
We can assist researchers in scaling up their
research ideas into a useable product and
we can manufacture other things for a biotech
company.
We also process fairly routine products that
we give to patients every day in the myro
and stem cell transplant program.
Jointly operated by The Nebraska Medical Center,
the region’s largest hospital, and the University
of Nebraska Medical Center, the state’s
health science center and an international
leader in health research, the Biologics Production
Facility opens new frontiers in research and
patient care.
In just a few hours this liquid, known as
storage media, will be part of someone’s
cancer treatment.
We’ll put a little bit of this storage media
in there and then we’ll take it over to
the patient.
Then they will get those cells as part of
their treatment for their cancer.
It’s a pretty neat little system.
The methods used here bring the concept of
personalized medicine to an entirely new level.
This laboratory makes that kind of bench top
to bedside translation possible because we
can take what is essentially a research product
and make it, according to good manufacturing
principles, so that we can actually safely
administer it to a patient.
The vaccine or the cellular product can be
manufactured just for you so it can be targeted
just against your malignancy for example or
the kind of problem that you have.
It’s no ordinary laboratory.
Every room and every piece of equipment here
was specially designed, built and installed
with absolute cleanliness in mind.
The air in a standard laboratory wouldn’t
necessarily be controlled because the standard
laboratory tests that you do, don’t really
require you have particularly clean air.
The air in this facility, in some portions,
is a hundred times cleaner than in an operating
room.
There are filters at each entrance to every
If we have any open steps in processing, we
do those under a biological safety cabinet
which is very clean.
The reason for that is these are all products
that patients are going to get.
They are going to get an infusion or an injection
and we have to be very certain that nothing
contributes to contaminating these or cross
contaminating one product with somebody else’s
product.
All these products are unique.
One product for one patient, so it’s not
like a bank or a laboratory, where you would
have many units of blood for example in a
blood bank, and you would just cross match
them and give them to an appropriate patient.
These are specifically designated, one product
for one patient.
As a facility that has various classifications,
we have class 100 thousand, we have class
10 thousand, our two million processing suites,
there is unique materials that are used.
The GMP guidelines state that we have to have
materials in place from the lights, paint,
flooring and they are all cleanable and prohibit
contaminations.
There is nothing that can get in from exterior
spaces, from the wall space to the ceiling
space, it is completely sealed.
The only thing that is supplied to this room
is the air from the HEPA filtered air handlers
and then of course the exhaust.
Right now, patients undergoing stem cell and
bone marrow transplants, for certain types
of leukemia and lymphoma are directly benefiting
from the biologics production facility.
I think this facility takes us to the next
level in all of those areas.
It takes myro and stem cell transplants to
the next level of being able to use not only
the transplant but the immune therapy and
the other things that go with it, to make
outcomes better, decrease complications or
to treat diseases that were resistant before.
New ground is being broken in the area of
solid organ transplant as well.
Not every organ that is available for transplant
is suitable for transplant.
Some of those could be used for making a suspension
of the cells that are important in that organ
and that’s really the next step.
It would also allow, if we could grow these
things up, to split an organ because we had
a small recipient or other ways to manipulate
things.
It allows us to take that next step.
When it comes to the future, the sky is the
limit.
Hopefully in the future we can do more new
things.
I think the standard products that we have
been making for a long time are very helpful
for many patients but that’s not really
the future of transplantation or immune therapies.
I see that there will be a lot more diseases
that could be treated with products or vaccines
that could be manufactured here.
It’s pretty much limitless.